Same opportunities any male cadet would have, as
you say, being in the army, in the band and
whatever. When Ms. Ingrass stepped up on the
stage, obviously Dr. Miller recognized her. And
when they called her, just before they called her
name, he turned to me and he said, I'm not going to
shake hands with her. And I said, Jarvis, I think
that's a mistake. I think you should. You're
representing Texas A&M and you need to do that to
get your personal feelings about this." And she
walked up and I handed him the diploma and he would
not shake hands with her.
And she didn't know what to do. She turned to me and
Some people say I shook her hand. I can't remember
if I did or I didn't. But anyway, I know it was an
embarrassing moment. I think my recollection is
that you did not and that you said to her, ma'am,
this is not part of my responsibility, something
like that. Okay. And my recollection is that Don
Carter then said, ma'am, would you please keep the
line moving? And so she walked on around. She
walked on, and she was the last one. And her dean
would have shaken hands with her at the exit of the
stage, I think. And I remember some hissing from
corps members as they saw her coming up on the
stage. That, plus the fact that she's the last of
the last of the last, causes everybody to stop and
notice. All eyes were there, and all eyes saw what
happened. Perfect. What reaction do you remember
afterward in the Letterman's Lounge or anywhere
else? Did you hear any comments? Oh, yes. Yes, I
heard several comments that it was certainly not
the proper thing to do. I always felt that that was a
big factor in Dr. Miller's future. As I
understand, when they summoned him over six weeks
later, the boardroom after their executive
session to tell him that he his presidency was
ended but that's the first thing that they said to
him. I don't know that. I do know I knew one of the
board members rather well during that regime and I
do know that that that was foremost in his mind,
whether he was confronted with it at that
particular time. He was confronted with it,
whether that was the time that he happened over at
the Ramada Inn,
did he not? I believe. I think that's right. When he
found out that he had been terminated, if I'm not
mistaken, there was a cocktail party at the Ramada
Inn, and that was when he learned about it. And now,
in the Letterman's Lounge, right after that
commencement, I heard a couple of board members
mumbling in the other direction. I heard them
saying, serves are right, should have, you know,
serves are right. Well, they would have been from
that particular group that we talked about
earlier and wanted to take their Aggie rings off,
and females were admitted to A&M. Right. Let's
see.
What are some things you remember happening that,
now we're on positive, happening in the audience
during commencements? Well,
of course, I always
truly enjoy hearing sometimes very loud and
exciting responses from parents when their son or
their daughter would walk across the stage. Such
things as, you finally made it. Gee, Mama and I can
enjoy a vacation. or things like that. Also, you
heard a lot of funny responses and also saw some
really interesting things with the type of signs
that the candidates would put on top of their hats.
Do you remember any? Oh, well, there was always
needing a job or I'm for hire or those kind of things
or hey, Mom, I did it. Hey, Dad, I did it or things
like that. My favorite of all is one that said
simply, hell froze over. That's
good. That's good. Of the presidents that you
observed at commencement, which ones did it best?
It can be plural. I didn't say one, but one. I
understand. You mean... The commencement
ceremony. All their participation and
everything. Well, Jack Williams was very smooth
up there. He was a wonderful speaker. Frank
Vandiver was a wonderful speaker. And I think, of
course, you know Frank had a different, something
that I'll always remember him by. He wore gloves
when he shook hands with the students. And I think
no other president did that, but he always had a
glove on.
Let's
see. Okay. Who can't see? After Vandiver, we
had... Mobley? Mobley.
And then after Mobley, we had...
Wait a minute, Mobley came. I never did work with
Mobley, no. No, Dr. Vandiver was still there when I
left. Yeah, he was there. I worked with, I worked
with, well I worked with General Rutter, and I
worked then with Ludeke, then Williams, then
Jarvis, and then Chick, I mean the engineer. the
interim president, Chuck Sampson. Dr. Sampson. I
got the wrong ballot on there. I would say overall
speaking, when you look at the, I mean all of them
loved the congratulations and shaking hands with
the students. I mean every one of them loved that.
But overall speaking, if you look at all aspects of
it, I think Dr. Williams and Dr. Vandiver really
did a superb job. And I guess a lot of that has to do
with those two gentlemen were outstanding
speakers.
They were both historians. They were both
historians, exactly. All right. Dr. Williams has
the heart attack and when he recovers and did,
during that period Mr. Freeman was the interim.
Did that make any changes in the way y'all
operated? No. Okay. Then Williams comes back and
the board then recreates the system
administration and he They make him the
chancellor and the board selects Dr. Miller as the
president. Did that change?
Are you speaking to graduation or are you speaking
to the whole operation? No, I don't recall that it
did at all.
No, I don't. You and Ed and Don. We were still there.
Dr. Miller seemed to be pleased with what we were
doing. Dr. Miller was very instrumental in
getting us the space over in Heaton Hall and
getting us moved in there, of course, which was
certainly
something that was overdue for us because we'd
gotten so crowded. When did we really start?
electronic computing in the whole registrar
operations?
Well, let's see. In about, we had some terminals
when we were still in the Koch building.
I would say about 1970, 72, 73,
We really started getting our equipment and that
sort of thing. By the time we got into Heaton, we
almost had a terminal for everybody who needed
one. Today, ten years ago when I left there, at that
time we had accomplished where every faculty
member had a
terminal by 1988. I am very comfortable with the
fact that I set out to do something that I thought
was so needed, and that was to automate that
system, and it accomplished it. I feel very
comfortable, and I'm very appreciative of people
like Chuck McCandless, who was a big proponent for
us. Well, you know, all of our people in the vice
president's offices always found the VP and the
provost to be very generous with us and give us most
of the time what we asked for. And computing cost a
lot of money. I mean, it took a ton of money to put
this online system up and this touch home
registration. Haskalawa
always viewed a registrar's office as being an
academic service unit. Sure. That's what it is.
Academic service for the students, the staff, and
the faculty. And it costs money to deliver those
kinds of things. I just think today how wonderful
it is that a faculty member can sit there in their
office and through a terminal they can know
everything they need to know about a student's
board of the academic program. They don't have to
have all these files and folders and all that sort
of stuff. Where did you turn as you were trying to
make this conversion? To what institution or
corporation did you turn for? for advice and
counsel? Well, the first people that I contacted
when I was speaking earlier, when I first started
to get this out of Savisa Hall and going to this
pre-registration plan was Purdue. And I spent
many hours at Purdue just trying to see if what they
were doing would fit the Texas A&M. The thing that
we were always able to do here, There were a lot of
schools throughout the country that were giving
what I call a partial registration opportunity to
a student. And that would be, most of them were
doing nothing but scheduling their academic
classes. And they would get their bill in the mail,
and then they'd have to go all over campus to the
police, to the library, to the ticket office where
to pay all this stuff. And I didn't see that that was
helping us any. Because after all, even in a field
house registration like we had at Sabisa Dining
Hall, when a kid walked out that back door, he was
through, or she. They could pay all their fees and
everything in one deal. So I wanted that same thing
electronically done. So we were able to do that
through our early pre-registration system,
although it still wasn't what I wanted. And then
when touch-tone came in and the telephone
industry upgraded and we were able to transmit all
this data by means of the phone line, Brigham Young
had the first touch-tone registration system. So
I went out there and spent quite a bit of time with
them. But as it would have it, they were doing
nothing but the academic schedule. A student
would get on the phone, key in, and they'd get their
schedule mailed to them. But when they got their
schedule, they'd still have to go back on campus
and go buy their tickets, their athletic tickets,
their dining and all that. They still had four or
five different places they had to go to. So I wasn't
satisfied. I was satisfied with the academic
schedule, but I wasn't satisfied with it. It was
not complete. So Texas A&M was the first
institution in the country that gave a student the
complete registration process by means of Texas
A&M. And also to be the size that it was. Do you
remember what year that was? Well, let's see.
We started that committee in about 84,
which I was chairman of. And we had that thing
completely implemented by, I'm going to say about
1987. It was up and running at least a year and a year
and a half before I left. Now there have been a lot of
things added to it since then that we had planned at
that time. This automated degree program that we
talked about earlier had come in since then, but we
had that in our package. That was all part of our
plan. But I guess the greatest compliment that I
ever had relative to Touchstone registration was
one day after Christmas when we started back for
the spring semester. A phone call came in, and this
guy got on the phone, and he said, Mr. Lacey, I'm
so-and-so, class of whatever it was, in the 50s.
And he said, I just want to tell you how wonderful it
is that my daughter could register while she was at
home. It did it by telephone. He said, I'm one of the
people that walked through Sabisa Dining Hall. I
said, well, I know what you're comparing it to
then. And he said, it's just great. He said, we want
to express our appreciation to you. And I said,
well, thank you very much. We appreciate your
call. He said, don't you want to know where I'm
calling from? I said, well, where are you calling
from? He said, London, England. Oh, my goodness,
how good. So I said, hey, wonderful. And truly, if
you have a touchstone phone, you can register from
anywhere in the world. I remember our son, our
number four, doing it from Columbia, Missouri one
semester, and he got exactly what he wanted. Then
the next day he decided he wanted to change the
schedule. I'm going to change some hours. He got on
the phone and in less than 30 minutes. He had it
done. He had it all done entirely differently. And
it suited his fancy. And I thought that if you can
have that student walk into class the first day
feeling comparatively optimistic about the
hour, the course, the instructor. In other words,
they selected it. Correct. There's a chance for it
being better. Got to be happy. Yeah. Got to be
happy. And see, the other wonderful thing about
that too, Haskell, which you saw, or you would
appreciate this, being a faculty member, that
roster, if that faculty member got that first
morning, that first day of class, was absolutely
excellent. Oh yeah, because it was all real time,
and if a kid decided he wanted to drop a course on
Sunday night, before we printed those things, His
name was off the list.
And
you know, back to what I said earlier about being,
when I was a student here, having those two places
that I wanted to do something about, the
registrar's office and the fiscal office, I think
we've made a lot of progress there because It took
me a while to get the fiscal people to come along,
but I did. And they agreed to automate all of the
finances and the student bills and that sort of
thing. I wasn't going to put it in unless I could get
that because I felt like we need to give the student
complete registration. And as a result, I
understand today that they've automated a lot.
You don't see the green jade in the fiscal
office. Looking back, what are the key decisions
that affected the registrar's operation that you
can think of that now, in hindsight, were key
decisions? Plus or minus?
Well,
And I don't know,
I have to be a little bit personal about what I do
when I say what I'm fixing to say. We raised the
Office of Admissions and Records to a higher level
than it was when I came in. And I don't want to be
critical about that.
And there were people like you and McKinley that we
worked with that helped us do that. We gained some
position on the campus. I think we were looked on in
the earlier years, as I said, as a necessary evil,
just thorn in everybody's side. And I wanted to
change that image to show that we were a service
unit, an academic service unit. We wanted to work
with the people out there. And I think people like
John Calhoun and Williams who supported and
recognized that we needed to be, and Ed Cooper, Ed
Cooper had a lot to do with it, to get us up there
where we were recognized and we were heard and we
had a say in things that were important to Texas A&M
University. such as classroom utilization. I
mean, you know, they were building buildings up
there and not asking anybody any questions at all
long before Chuck McCandlish got there, you know,
and where we had then some data to say, hey, don't
come in here and tell me you need another history
building or another English building. Let me show
you right now what you're not using. We couldn't do
that. It was again back to that similar type of
attitude Well, I need to teach my class in this
building. Well, we need a new building for
mechanical engineering just because we need a new
building for mechanical engineering. And
there's a lot of politics and all that, and you and I
focused on that. But I think we got
administrations to recognize these people. are
necessary in the management of this university,
and they've got a lot of data over there that can be
very helpful to us in making some critical
decisions before we go out here to Hawthorne and
start asking for money. And so, and I think a lot of
that has to do with personality, you know, and
being able to sit down and I guess one of the things
that I always respected about our administration
here, always felt like that if you could get in
there, and once we got to that level, get in there,
they would listen to you. And you could make your
point. And, you know, if it was legitimate, I mean,
I never felt like that I went down and asked them for
something that wasn't necessary. I learned that a
long, long time ago. That, you know, I feel like
that we as employees of public institutions that
have tax dollars that are we're responsible for
need to be responsible for and need to be uh you know
not here just asking because i mean am in my whole
career in texas a m university never once did i ever
feel that we didn't have the money to do something
no we were always told a lot of stuff but that's fine
good But I just felt, I feel like, and I think one of
the big things that really is a factor there when we
were able to say, hey, let us schedule these
classes and let us show you what kind of classroom
utilization we can come out with, was a big
decision that helped us. There were many others.
One thing that I was always blessed with my job up
there, and maybe it's kind of hard for me to answer
your question,
I have to assume that we did a good job because
nobody was ever pushing us. I mean, really. You
know,
the 26 years I worked there, I never, ever had for
one major money in the domain capital of my life.
You said one time. Can you? Dr. Wernert. And Dr.
Wernert and I are good friends today. And I think it
was maybe because, you know, I mean, it was just a
point of... And if he were sitting in that room,
he'd say, well, hey, you know, it shouldn't have
ever happened. But I feel... I just always felt
that we were honest and honorable, forthright in
what we were coming in there to ask people about,
and most of the time they supported us. And that's a
compliment on both sides, to them and to me.
Proudest moments? Some events you can remember
and say, ooh, yeah, yeah.
Well, we were extremely proud. when we got into our
new facility over there. I mean, that was, you
know, we had a building now that belonged, I don't
want to be talking about both sides of my mouth when
I say belonged to us. I don't mean it in the sense
that I talked about earlier, but we had space. We
had adequate space. And another proud moment was
when it had again to do with the registration, was
when they came and said, hey, here's a pavilion, be
with it. And I was the project coordinator on that
building. Dying it like a wound. Now who made the
decision not to tear that down, but to save it?
Because there had to be somebody. Yeah, there was.
Well, let's see. Was McCandless still here?
McCandless? Oh yes. Oh yeah, McCandless was here
then. Yes. I was trying to think who the president
would have been then, I guess.
Was it Miller? No. Wasn't Miller? No. Because I'm
still here. You're still here. Okay. And it's
after me. I think so. Okay, and it's after you? I
think so. So it's... Would you leave 80? 80. So it's
Chuck Sampson or Vanderer, I guess.
You know, that's what I'm... I'm sorry. I'm
completely lapsed on that. I... I know I worked
with Chuck on that thing, you know. Of course,
Chuck was also involved in that, uh, uh, well, no,
he left, though, Danny, when he, when he left
Provost Office, he and, he and Eaton went to Iowa
State. Iowa State, didn't they? Well, I'll have
to, let me, let me see if I can get a, get a little more
information. I may be some fill-in I'll do for you
when we get there. Other proud moments you recall?
Uh,
Well, I've already talked about this some, but the
proudest of my whole administration up there was
the institution of the student automated
records. I don't know where we are today. I suspect
we're still at the top, but we were at the top then,
and we should be there now. And, you know, I mean, I
can remember high school when it took a kid three,
four weeks to get a transcript after the grade
turned in. They're getting them now the next day,
you know. And they're in the mail and gone. And
that's just, in my business, that's very, very
important. And I know we're miles ahead of what a
lot of schools do. All right. If you could go back,
are there anything Is there anything or things
you'd like, wish you could change, given
hindsight?
No. And I'll tell you why, again, why I feel that
way. I feel that way because
I've only had two jobs in my entire lifetime. One of
them was the Cypress Firebanks and the rest of them
was the Texas A&M. But I can also tell you this. I was
very close nationwide to my colleagues in this
business. When I was much younger in this field, I
went to all of those national meetings, and I
stayed very much up to date on all of them. And I came
home time after time after time, thinking,
everybody that I could think that had given me my
job at that time, because I would not have been
employed in those schools. Not only because of the
way, necessarily of the lack of facilities, or the
lack of money, or the lack of poor administration,
or the student body. The student body probably
comes first. We've got, had, in my lifetime, the
best student body in the world. And if you recall,
when all the upheaval was going on in Kent State and
other places across the country, one day, I looked
out my window and I caught
this group of students out around Southern. And
this was during the time when the moratoriums were
going and all that stuff, Vietnam. I walked over
there just to see. very friendly discussion going
on between the cowboys and the cadet corps on one
side and the few hippies we had on the other side.
But what they had to say, I enjoyed listening to
because they both were making third points and
they were decent about it. And it was ended and it
was gone. You know, we didn't have students
walking in the president's office and grabbing
him by the tie and throwing him out in the hall and
locking and taking over and all that kind of stuff.
So, and then having the kind of administrators
that we had that supported us and listened to us and
the student body we had and all the wonderful
people that we had around us to work with. I'll go
back through it again and we'll change things.
Okay, we're getting close to the end. Let's make
believe that somebody walked up to you and handed
you a check for a lot of money, and we'll say six
figures at least, and say, here, you can give this
to Texas A&M, and you can specify what unit, what
part of the university it's going to go to. What
would that do?
Well, I'm big on scholarships. For what? Needy.
Regardless of their major? Needy students,
regardless of their major. I believe very
strongly in everybody having an opportunity for
an education.
And then I also think that certain amounts of it
would be necessary to cut to research. That may
sound a little bit strange coming from me, but I do
know how valuable research is. I think sometimes
maybe we get a little overboard on it. That's just a
personal opinion. But I think it's extremely
important.
I would have difficulty in putting it into
buildings and that sort of thing because I think
that's what the state of Texas should be doing. But
I would put it into that.